# Split Ad Testing

Team Members: Pranav Manjunath, Aiman Haider, Luyi Huang, Maobin Guo, Xinyi Pan

Through the project, we would attempt to understand what promotional advertisement strategy between the two - photos and videos - work better for promoting a Musical Band’s (our own team member’s!) Facebook Page. We intend to run a split testing on the advertisements and gauge the effectiveness of the two strategies to understand which is better. This project would be helpful in learning about effectively advertising on Facebook - for Musical Bands in particular, and most professional organisations in general, including Businesses.
As a start up musical band, we are trying to understand the best way to promote our Band’s Facebook page, through ads. Right now, the band uses images as ads and is considering to replace it with ads that have video. Thus, we want to understand the impact of ads that have videos vs ads that consists of still images.

We plan to do a split testing - We plan to create two Facebook advertisement posts-one con- taining a still photo and the other containing a video. We would use the "Ads Manager" feature which would create a "Learn More" button associated with each of those adds. When the user clicks on the "Learn More" button, they will be redirected to the Band’s Facebook Page. The number of clicks we get via the button would be the outcome of interest and the metric that we would base our final metric of cost per click we would use. For running this experiment we plan to do a base run to understand our baseline conversion rates (the number of page hits we get via the normal advertisement) and see the randomization present. Based on these, we would calculate the sample size, duration of study and the power of the experiment. We would then do a final run and get the metrics. These would be finally regressed with cost per click as per dependent variable and independent variables (to be understood better during the trial run).
We plan to run 2 types of ads at the same time. The ads will have the exact same text descriptions but will consist of different types of multimedia- one ad will have a photo while the other ad will have a video.
